# LiFi-communication

### About Li-Fi
LiFi communication system sends and receives the data at high speeds over the visible light, ultraviolet, and infrared spectrums. System is made using Arduino Due microcontroller and 
small amount of analog electronics like operational amplifiers, capacitors, resistors, IR LED and photodiode.

In terms of its end use, the technology is similar to Wi-Fi -- the key technical difference being that Wi-Fi uses radio frequency to induce a voltage in an antenna to transmit data. 
Whereas Li-Fi uses the modulation of light intensity to transmit data. Li-Fi can theoretically transmit at speeds of up to 100 Gbit/s. Li-Fi's ability to safely function in areas 
otherwise susceptible to electromagnetic interference (e.g. aircraft cabins, hospitals, military) is an advantage. The technology is being developed by several organizations across
the globe.

The IEEE 802.15.7 standard defines the physical layer (PHY) and media access control (MAC) layer. The standard is able to deliver enough data rates to transmit audio, video and 
multimedia services. It takes into account optical transmission mobility, its compatibility with artificial lighting present in infrastructures, and the interference which may be
generated by ambient lighting. The MAC layer permits using the link with the other layers as with the TCP/IP protocol.

The standard defines three PHY layers with different rates:
The PHY 1 was established for outdoor application and works from 11.67 kbit/s to 267.6 kbit/s.
The PHY 2 layer permits reaching data rates from 1.25 Mbit/s to 96 Mbit/s.
The PHY 3 is used for many emissions sources with a particular modulation method called color shift keying (CSK). PHY III can deliver rates from 12 Mbit/s to 96 Mbit/s.

